source/User_Guide/Suppressions/bounces.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Bounces
seo:
  title: Bounces
  description: SendGrid will help prevent you from resending to a recipient whose email server rejects the messages.
  keywords: Bounce suppressions, bounce unsubscribes, bounce email unsubscribe, bounce email suppression
navigation:
  show: true
---

A bounce occurs when a sent message is rejected by the receiving mail server. The most common causes for bounced email messages include a misspelled email address, a nonexistent email address, or a full recipient inbox. A repeat bounce is when an address has bounced, then bounced a second time and logged to the bounce suppression list, but you ask us to send to this recipient again. Our system will suppress the message, because it ‘knows’ that recipient address is bad.

{% anchor h2 %}
Bounce Notifications
{% endanchor %}

If you would like to receive a notification for each bounce message, you can turn on Bounce Forwarding in your Mail Settings.

{% anchor h2 %}
Searching Bounces by Date
{% endanchor %}

In the top right corner, you will see a calendar icon. Click this and choose the unsubscribe dates you would like to search between. Your recipient list will refresh, showing the recipients who unsubscribed between these dates.

{% anchor h2 %}
Download Bounces as CSV
{% endanchor %}

You can download your Bounce list as a CSV by clicking the gear icon at the top of the page and selecting “Download CSV”. The file will download in your browser right away.

{% anchor h2 %}
Removing Recipients From The List
{% endanchor %}

When you select the checkboxes next to the recipient names or select all, using the checkbox next to the search box, you will see a new button at the top of the page. From this list, you can choose to remove the selected recipients from the list. You can also use the Bounce Purge.

{% anchor h2 %}
Related
{% endanchor %}

[Set up Bounce Forwarding to go to the email’s from address]({{site.support_url}}/hc/en-us/articles/200181478)

Commit message:

Additional Resource section added to Suppressions module

source/User_Guide/Suppressions/bounces.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Bounces
seo:
  title: Bounces
  description: SendGrid will help prevent you from resending to a recipient whose email server rejects the messages.
  keywords: Bounce suppressions, bounce unsubscribes, bounce email unsubscribe, bounce email suppression
navigation:
  show: true
---

A bounce occurs when a sent message is rejected by the receiving mail server. The most common causes for bounced email messages include a misspelled email address, a nonexistent email address, or a full recipient inbox. A repeat bounce is when an address has bounced, then bounced a second time and logged to the bounce suppression list, but you ask us to send to this recipient again. Our system will suppress the message, because it ‘knows’ that recipient address is bad.

{% anchor h2 %}
Bounce Notifications
{% endanchor %}

If you would like to receive a notification for each bounce message, you can turn on Bounce Forwarding in your Mail Settings.

{% anchor h2 %}
Searching Bounces by Date
{% endanchor %}

In the top right corner, you will see a calendar icon. Click this and choose the unsubscribe dates you would like to search between. Your recipient list will refresh, showing the recipients who unsubscribed between these dates.

{% anchor h2 %}
Download Bounces as CSV
{% endanchor %}

You can download your Bounce list as a CSV by clicking the gear icon at the top of the page and selecting “Download CSV”. The file will download in your browser right away.

{% anchor h2 %}
Removing Recipients From The List
{% endanchor %}

When you select the checkboxes next to the recipient names or select all, using the checkbox next to the search box, you will see a new button at the top of the page. From this list, you can choose to remove the selected recipients from the list. You can also use the Bounce Purge.

{% anchor h2 %}
Additional Resources
{% endanchor %}

- [Set up Bounce Forwarding to go to the email’s from address]({{site.support_url}}/hc/en-us/articles/200181478)
- [Global Unsubscribes]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Suppressions/global_unsubscribes.html)
- [Group Unsubscribes]({{site.app_url}}/suppressions/group_unsubscribes)
