content/docs/for-developers/tracking-events/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
seo:
  title: Troubleshooting the Event Webhook
  description: Tips and tricks to troubleshoot your SendGrid Event Webhook, including common issues.
  keywords: event webhook, troubleshooting, events, duplication, load handling, duplicate events
title: Troubleshooting the Event Webhook
group: reference-troubleshooting
weight: 80
layout: page
navigation:
  show: true
---

## 	General troubleshooting

*Considerations for troubleshooting your Event Webhook instance:*

- Start by making sure your web server is returning a 2xx response to our servers. Any other response type will result in our server retrying a POST until we receive a 2xx response or the maximum time has expired. All events are retried at increasing intervals for up to 24 hours after the event occurs.
- Next, make sure you are not blocking our IPs that are trying to POST to your server. Our IPs change often since we constantly add more machines.
- http://httpresponder.com/ is a helpful tool for debugging webhooks.
- You can use the **Test Your Integration** feature within the Event Notification Setting on the [Settings > Mail Settings](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/mail_settings) page in the [SendGrid UI](https://app.sendgrid.com) to send simulated events to your callback URL. You can also send a POST from a shell using cURL - this will give you the full response your server is returning including the HTTP headers:

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '[{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337197600,"smtp-id":"<4FB4041F.6080505@sendgrid.com>","event":"processed"},{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337966815,"category":"newuser","event":"click","url":"https://sendgrid.com"},{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337969592,"smtp-id":"<20120525181309.C1A9B40405B3@Example-Mac.local>","event":"processed"}]'
```

- If you're not getting a response from your server, follow the steps in [Getting started with the Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/getting-started-event-webhook/) to test your SendGrid instance with Webhook tester. You could also use tools like ngrok, or Runscope.

## 	Common issues

 ### 	Duplicate events

**It is possible to see duplicate events in the data posted by the Event Webhook.**

We recommend that you use some form of deduplication when processing or storing your Event Webhook data using the `sg_event_id` as a differentiator since this ID is unique for every event where `sg_event_id` is present.

The `sg_event_id` is a [UUIDv4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier#Version_4_(random) string that is `Base64url` encoded.

## 	Additional Resources

- [Getting started with the Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/getting-started-event-webhook/)
- [Event webhook reference]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/event/)
- [An Event Webhook case study](https://sendgrid.com/blog/leveraging-sendgrids-event-api/)
- [Webhook web libraries]({{root_url}}/for-developers/sending-email/libraries/)
- [Getting started with Keen.io](https://keen.io/guides/getting-started/)

Commit message:

added note regarding test your integration
currently if you have basic authentication in your URL, our test your integration function will not POST which can be confusing for people troubleshooting!

content/docs/for-developers/tracking-events/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
seo:
  title: Troubleshooting the Event Webhook
  description: Tips and tricks to troubleshoot your SendGrid Event Webhook, including common issues.
  keywords: event webhook, troubleshooting, events, duplication, load handling, duplicate events
title: Troubleshooting the Event Webhook
group: reference-troubleshooting
weight: 80
layout: page
navigation:
  show: true
---

## 	General troubleshooting

*Considerations for troubleshooting your Event Webhook instance:*

- Start by making sure your web server is returning a 2xx response to our servers. Any other response type will result in our server retrying a POST until we receive a 2xx response or the maximum time has expired. All events are retried at increasing intervals for up to 24 hours after the event occurs.
- Next, make sure you are not blocking our IPs that are trying to POST to your server. Our IPs change often since we constantly add more machines.
- http://httpresponder.com/ is a helpful tool for debugging webhooks.
- You can use the **Test Your Integration** feature within the Event Notification Setting on the [Settings > Mail Settings](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/mail_settings) page in the [SendGrid UI](https://app.sendgrid.com) to send simulated events to your callback URL (note: this will not work if you have basic authentication set in your endpoint URL). You can also send a POST from a shell using cURL - this will give you the full response your server is returning including the HTTP headers:

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '[{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337197600,"smtp-id":"<4FB4041F.6080505@sendgrid.com>","event":"processed"},{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337966815,"category":"newuser","event":"click","url":"https://sendgrid.com"},{"email":"john.doe@sendgrid.com","timestamp":1337969592,"smtp-id":"<20120525181309.C1A9B40405B3@Example-Mac.local>","event":"processed"}]'
```

- If you're not getting a response from your server, follow the steps in [Getting started with the Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/getting-started-event-webhook/) to test your SendGrid instance with Webhook tester. You could also use tools like ngrok, or Runscope.

## 	Common issues

 ### 	Duplicate events

**It is possible to see duplicate events in the data posted by the Event Webhook.**

We recommend that you use some form of deduplication when processing or storing your Event Webhook data using the `sg_event_id` as a differentiator since this ID is unique for every event where `sg_event_id` is present.

The `sg_event_id` is a [UUIDv4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier#Version_4_(random) string that is `Base64url` encoded.

## 	Additional Resources

- [Getting started with the Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/getting-started-event-webhook/)
- [Event webhook reference]({{root_url}}/for-developers/tracking-events/event/)
- [An Event Webhook case study](https://sendgrid.com/blog/leveraging-sendgrids-event-api/)
- [Webhook web libraries]({{root_url}}/for-developers/sending-email/libraries/)
- [Getting started with Keen.io](https://keen.io/guides/getting-started/)
