---
title: "release notes 2019-12-19"
date: 2019-12-19
releaseType:
  - ui
  - api
---

### Email Content Testing for Dynamic Templates

Test your email content against spam filters, validate hyperlinks, and preview HTML rendering across browsers and devices with Email Testing for Dynamic Templates. Monthly testing credits included for Trial, Pro and Premier plans, with additional credits available for purchase. See our Email Testing [documentation]({{root_url}}/ui/sending-email/email-testing/) for more details.

We've made some improvements to Transactional Templates. We've renamed them to Dynamic Templates since they can be used to build the content for any type of email message sent over our Email API. They can be found in the app’s sidebar navigation under both the new “Email API” navigation item or the “Templates” navigation item. We've also eased ongoing template management by adding thumbnail images and allowing duplication of entire templates as well as the individual versions within a template.

For more, see our [blog post about working with Dynamic Templates](https://sendgrid.com/blog/how-to-use-sendgrids-dynamic-templates-for-your-transactional-emails/).

### Designs API

We’ve added a brand new Designs API, allowing you to easily create, edit, download, or delete Email Designs without relying on the SendGrid app UI. You can use the Designs you’ve created across all of your Twilio SendGrid Email—from Automations, to Single Sends, and Dynamic Templates. For more about working with the API, see our [API Reference](https://sendgrid.com/docs/api-reference/).
