---
title: 'release notes 2020-11-11'
date: 2020-11-11
releaseType:
  - ui
---

### Segment Refresh Cadence Improvements

Previously, segment samples did not refresh after initial segment creation (or after editing the conditions of a segment). With this release, segment samples are now refreshed hourly as long as Marketing Campaigns detects any changes as contacts enter or exit the segment. If no changes are detected, the next refresh will occur at 2 hours, and then 4, with a maximum delay to segment sample refresh of 24 hours.

For a real-time view of all contacts within your segment at any time, you can always export a CSV. This is not dependent on the sample refresh cadence.

For more information about the segment refresh cadence, see our [segmentation documentation](https://sendgrid.com/docs/ui/managing-contacts/segmenting-your-contacts/#segment-refresh-cadence).

### Preview Segment Sample Contacts

From the Contacts page, you can now see when the next scheduled segment will occur by hovering over the segment contact count. This same information can also be found on the segment detail page beneath the total contact count for that segment.

For a real-time view of all contacts within your segment at any time, you can always export a CSV. This is not dependent on the segment refresh cadence.

The sample refresh cadence has also been made available to [Marketing Campaigns API](https://sendgrid.api-docs.io/v3.0/segmenting-contacts/create-segment) users via the `next_sample_update` field.
