# SendGrid Documentation

This site is based on Octopress, which is in turn based on Jekyll, with a dash of Twitter Bootstrap added.

## Setup

* Clone the repo. Run `bundle install`.
* Run `rake check_dependencies:development` and make sure you've got everything.
* Copy _config.sample.yml to _config.yml
* Set your root (if you're running locally it'll just be /) in _config.yml
* Run rake preview
* Browse to localhost:4000

## Important Things to Know

* The source files are in  /source, and the generated files will be created in /public. They get overwritten or wiped out when the site is rebuilt.

* To rebuild the site: <code>rake generate</code>

* To deploy the site to an s3 bucket (requires s3tools configured with AWS key and secret, and bucket name specified in \_config.yml): <code>rake gzip\_deploy</code>. This gzips all the content and pushes to an s3 bucket with the correct Content-Encoding header, as well as adding Expires header info for .js and .css pages.

## Config

The only config variables you should need to know about are <code>root</code>, which is the root from which all links are calculated, and the <code>folder_weights</code> hash, which specifies the order that the folders should be displayed in the nav tree. Higher weights mean higher display priority (higher in the tree).

There's also a <code>version</code> number in the config, which is displayed on the site footer.

### The Nav Tree

The nav tree is generated by the plugin site_navigation.rb. It is essentially a recursive traversal of all the folders and pages in the Source folder that generates a hierarchical tree, sorted by folder weight and page weight.

Breadcrumbs are generated by the breadcrumbs.rb plugin.

### Pages

You can write pages in markdown, HTML, or HAML. They all get converted to HTML when the site is generated.

Pages have a block of YAML at the top that sets a few options. They are pretty self explanatory; here's an example

```
	---
	layout: page
	weight: 0
	title: Docs Home
	icon: icon-home
	showTitle: false
	navigation:
	  show: true
	---
```

Weights are same as the folder weights - the higher numbers move higher up the tree. Icons are based on the CSS icon class names from Twitter Bootstrap. showTitle and navigation["show"] both default to true if not specified.

## JS and CSS, etc
Make sure you have juicer and it's dependencies installed. This should be handled by bundler, but if you run into issues, read this note from the juicer gem docs:
> You need Java installed and available on your PATH. During gem installation, Juicer will download and install YUI Compressor, Closure Compiler, JsLint and Rhino for you.

JavaScript and CSS are minified and combined using Juicer. The files to be packaged and their orders are specified in <code>JsMinify.yml</code> and <code>CssMinify.yml</code>. Image files referenced in CSS files are embedded as data-uri information, assuming they are not too large. 

## License
(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2009-2011 Brandon Mathis

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the ‘Software’), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ‘AS IS’, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
