source/Glossary/triggered_actions.md, before:

---
seo:
  title: Triggered Actions
  description: Triggered Actions are initiated by a triggering event.
  keywords: automated email, triggered actions, triggering events, Threads
title: Triggered Actions
weight: 0
layout: page
navigation:
  show: false
---

Triggered actions are automatically initiated when a specific [triggering event]({{root_url}}/Glossary/triggering_events.html) that you are tracking takes place. These actions must be defined in advance, and they must be associated with a predetermined user and event.

SendGrid’s email automation platform, [Threads](http://threads.io/), makes it possible for you to take several different actions depending on the ways in which a specified user interacts with your website or application. An example of a triggered action might be an email message (or series of messages) welcoming a new user to your website or application.

{% info %}
To learn more about the different actions that Threads makes possible, please visit our [Threads FAQ](https://support.threads.io/hc/en-us/articles/206049497-What-types-of-Workflow-Actions-are-supported-).
{% endinfo %}

Commit message:

Updated with Klaviyo information
Changed:

SendGrid’s email automation platform, Threads, makes it possible for you to take several different actions depending on the ways in which a specified user interacts with your website or application. An example of a triggered action might be an email message (or series of messages) welcoming a new user to your website or application.

To learn more about the different actions that Threads makes possible, please visit our Threads FAQ.

To:

SendGrid has partnered with [Klaviyo](https://sendgrid.com/partners/klaviyo/) to help you drive sales by using data to send triggered email, segment your lists, run better facebook ads, and more. An example of a triggered action might be an email message (or series of messages) welcoming a new user to your website or application.

{% info %}
To learn more about the different actions that Klaviyo can provide visit their [website](https://www.klaviyo.com/).
{% endinfo %}

source/Glossary/triggered_actions.md, after:

---
seo:
  title: Triggered Actions
  description: Triggered Actions are initiated by a triggering event.
  keywords: automated email, triggered actions, triggering events, Threads
title: Triggered Actions
weight: 0
layout: page
navigation:
  show: false
---

Triggered actions are automatically initiated when a specific [triggering event]({{root_url}}/Glossary/triggering_events.html) that you are tracking takes place. These actions must be defined in advance, and they must be associated with a predetermined user and event.

SendGrid has partnered with [Klaviyo](https://sendgrid.com/partners/klaviyo/) to help you drive sales by using data to send triggered email, segment your lists, run better facebook ads, and more. An example of a triggered action might be an email message (or series of messages) welcoming a new user to your website or application.

{% info %}
To learn more about the different actions that Klaviyo can provide visit their [website](https://www.klaviyo.com/).
{% endinfo %}
