source/Integrate/Mail_Servers/postfix.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Postfix
seo:
  title: Integrate SendGrid with Postfix - SendGrid Documentation | SendGrid
  description: Setup SendGrid as a Postfix relay host for better deliverability and advanced statistics on your email.
navigation:
  show: true
---

Updating the Postfix configuration to use SendGrid as a relay host is easy. For more advanced configuration scenarios, you'll need to refer to the Postfix documentation.

{% warning %}
Some implementations of Postfix only allow passwords to contain letters and numbers, meaning you may need to ensure your SendGrid password is only alphanumeric. 
{% endwarning %}

Find your Postfix config file, typically **/etc/postfix/main.cf**, and add the following:

{% codeblock %}
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes 
smtp_sasl_password_maps = static:yourSendGridUsername:yourSendGridPassword 
smtp_sasl_security_options = noanonymous 
smtp_tls_security_level = encrypt
header_size_limit = 4096000
relayhost = [smtp.sendgrid.net]:587
{% endcodeblock %}

Make sure to restart Postfix:
{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ /etc/init.d/postfix restart
{% endcodeblock %}

 
{% info %}
If you are getting ***no mechanism available*** error messages it generally indicates that you are missing some SASL authentication libraries. 
{% endinfo %}

Install the missing module dependency using apt-get (i.e., Debian, Ubuntu):

{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ apt-get install libsasl2-modules
{% endcodeblock %}

 Or using a yum (i.e., RedHat, Fedora, CentOS): 

{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ yum install cyrus-sasl-plain
{% endcodeblock %}

{% anchor h2%}
Troubleshooting
{% endanchor %}

If port 587 is not working for you please try 2525 in your postfix config. You may also need to edit /etc/postfix/master.cf to remove # from

 #tlsmgr unix - - n 1000? 1 tlsmgr

Commit message:

Update Postfix Integration doc
Moved password to secured sasl_passwd file, together with
necessary steps to compile such file.
Also updated service restart command to systemd.

source/Integrate/Mail_Servers/postfix.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Postfix
seo:
  title: Integrate SendGrid with Postfix - SendGrid Documentation | SendGrid
  description: Setup SendGrid as a Postfix relay host for better deliverability and advanced statistics on your email.
navigation:
  show: true
---

Updating the Postfix configuration to use SendGrid as a relay host is easy. For more advanced configuration scenarios, you'll need to refer to the Postfix documentation.

{% warning %}
Some implementations of Postfix only allow passwords to contain letters and numbers, meaning you may need to ensure your SendGrid password is only alphanumeric. 
{% endwarning %}

Find your Postfix config file, typically **/etc/postfix/main.cf**, and add the following:

{% codeblock %}
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtp_sasl_password_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
smtp_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
smtp_sasl_tls_security_options = noanonymous
smtp_tls_security_level = encrypt
header_size_limit = 4096000
relayhost = [smtp.sendgrid.net]:587
{% endcodeblock %}

Now you need to specify your credentials (optionally, use `apikey` as username and an API Key as password) in the separate file **/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd** (you'll likely need to create it):

{% codeblock %}
[smtp.sendgrid.net]:587 yourSendGridUsername:yourSendGridPassword
{% endcodeblock %}

Next, make sure the file has restricted read and write access only for root, and use the `postmap` command to update Postfix's hashtables to use this new file:

{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ sudo chmod 600 /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
$ sudo postmap /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
{% endcodeblock %}

Finally, restart Postfix:
{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ sudo systemctl restart postfix
{% endcodeblock %}

 
{% info %}
If you are getting ***no mechanism available*** error messages it generally indicates that you are missing some SASL authentication libraries. 
{% endinfo %}

Install the missing module dependency using apt-get (i.e., Debian, Ubuntu):

{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ apt-get install libsasl2-modules
{% endcodeblock %}

 Or using a yum (i.e., RedHat, Fedora, CentOS): 

{% codeblock lang:bash %}
$ yum install cyrus-sasl-plain
{% endcodeblock %}

{% anchor h2%}
Troubleshooting
{% endanchor %}

If port 587 is not working for you please try 2525 in your postfix config. You may also need to edit /etc/postfix/master.cf to remove # from

 #tlsmgr unix - - n 1000? 1 tlsmgr
