---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Leveraging Expert Insights
group: expert-insights
seo:
  title: Use Expert Insights to enhance your email performance and how to subscribe to the report
  description: Learn how the Expert Insights Report to enhance your email performance and how to subscribe to this report
  keywords: 
navigation:
  show: true
---
 	 	 		
Expert Insights is a monthly report that will give you deeper visibility into the health and performance of your email program. This report equips you with the data and insights you need to reach the inbox and increase your email ROI.  **See an example of an Expert Insights Report [here.](https://sendgrid.com/wp-content/uploads/pdf/Expert-Insights-Sample.pdf)**

Expert Insights is designed to help you:
* Understand your performance trends in an easy-to-understand, shareable format.
* Identify areas of improvement with in-depth data on the factors that impact deliverability.
* Know exactly what to do if you run into an issue with step-by-step instructions from our experts. View a sample course [here.] (https://rise.articulate.com/share/VlJssyUNRN1dLEarFolNAx0teya492tR)

## How Expert Insights Works

Expert Insights analyzes your email funnel, providing visibility into how your email is performing as it is sent, delivered, opened, and clicked by your recipients. The report will highlight any potential leakage points (e.g., blocked emails) and opportunities to improve deliverability and engagement based on our deep expertise in email. This report spans a calendar month. Throughout the report, we compare data period-to-period (30-days to the previous 30-days). 

    <call-out>

Currently, only Pro and Premier customers can purchase Expert Insights.

    </call-out>

To get the most out of Expert Insights, we recommend that customers have click- and open-tracking enabled and that customers use categories in order to separate their email data. A category is ___. Some data in the report is broken out by category to make the report as granular and actionable as possible. We recommend that customers 3-5 categories.

Reports are generated by [subuser]({{root_url}}/ui/account-and-settings/subusers/). Please reach out to our [Sales team] (add hyperlink here) to purchase reports for multiple subusers.
						
## How to Subscribe to Expert Insights

1. Before you purchase Expert Insights, you will need to determine the subuser(s) that you want to us to run a report on and where we should email the reports. We can send your reports to up to 3 email addresses.
1. Pro users can purchase Expert Insights directly on their [Billing page.] (add hyperlink here) If you’re a Premier customer, please [contact sales] (add hyperlink here) or speak to your Customer Success Manager to purchase Expert insights.
1. After you complete your purchase, you will receive your first report at the email addresses you’ve provided us as well as at your account administration email address within 1-2 business days. Moving forward, Expert Insights will appear on your regular monthly invoice. If you purchase the report before the 1st of the month, prorated charges for your report will appear on your next invoice, as well as the full charge for next month’s report.
1. We will send your monthly report to the emails you’ve provided us at the beginning of each month.

  <call-out>

For privacy reasons, your first Expert Insights report will cover 37 days of data or as much time as you’ve been a SendGrid customer. Areas of the report that look back past 37 days will be populated over time.

  <call-out>
 
 <call-out>
 
Need additional help? SendGrid's team of Email Consultants have over 95 years of combined email experience. If you're having any email issues or would like advice on how to optimize engagement, talk to one of our consultants today!

  <call-out>

## Managing Your Expert Insights Subscription

Please reach out to our [Support team] (https://support.sendgrid.com/hc/en-us) at any time to change the email recipients of your monthly reports or the subuser that you want to run your report on.

Pro users can cancel their Expert Insights directly on their Billing page; premier customers should reach out to their Customer Success Manager to cancel their subscription. If you cancel your Expert Insights subscription, you will no longer receive monthly reports. This change will be reflected on your invoice in the following month. If you have would like to cancel your subscription for a specific user or users, please contract our [Support team.] (https://support.sendgrid.com/hc/en-us) 

You will still receive a report if you have paid for a report this month but have not yet received it. This will be your final report. We will immediately stop collecting your data after your last report. While you can always re-purchase Expert Insights through our [Sales Team,] (https://sendgrid.com/expert-services-questions/) note that you will see a gap in your report data if you do so.
