source/API_Reference/Web_API/invalid_emails.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Invalid Emails
navigation:
  show: true
---

This endpoint allows you to retrieve and delete entries in the Invalid Emails list.

{% anchor h2 %}
get 
{% endanchor %}

Retrieve a list of invalid emails with addresses and response codes, optionally with dates.

{% parameters get %} 
  
  {% parameter date No 'Must be set to 1' 'Retrieve the timestamp of the invalid email records. It will return a date in a MySQL timestamp format - YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' %}  
  {% parameter days No 'If specified, must be an integer greater than 0' 'Number of days in the past for which to retrieve invalid emails (includes today)' %}  
  {% parameter start_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be earlier than the end_date parameter.' 'The start of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter end_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be later than the start_date parameter.' 'The end of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter limit No 'Some integer' 'Optional field to limit the number of results returned.' %}  
  {% parameter offset No 'Some integer' 'Optional beginning point in the list to retrieve from.' %}  
  {% parameter email No 'Email address eg testing@example.com' 'Optional email addresses to search for.' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample get GET https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.get api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password&date=1 %}
  {% response json %}
[
  {
    "reason": "Known bad domain",
    "created": "2011-06-06 16:11:57",
    "email": "test@example.com"
  },
  {
    "reason": "Invalid address",
    "created": "2012-08-17 11:04:38",
    "email": "brandon"
  }
]
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<invalidemails>
   <invalidemail>
      <reason>Known bad domain</reason>
      <created>2011-06-06 16:11:57</created>
      <email>test@example.com</email>
   </invalidemail>
   <invalidemail>
      <reason>Invalid address</reason>
      <created>2012-08-17 11:04:38</created>
      <email>brandon</email>
   </invalidemail>
</invalidemails>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}

* * * * *

{% anchor h2 %}
count 
{% endanchor %}

Retrieve the count of invalid emails.

{% parameters count %} 
  
  {% parameter start_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be earlier than the end_date parameter.' 'The start of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter end_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be later than the start_date parameter.' 'The end of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample count GET https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.count api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password %}
  {% response json %}
{
  "count": 2
}
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<result>
   <count>2</count>
   <result> </result>
</result>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}

* * * * *

{% anchor h2 %}
delete 
{% endanchor %}

Delete an address from the Invalid Email list.

{% parameters delete %} 
  
  {% parameter email Yes 'Must be a valid user account email' 'Email Invalid Email address to remove' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample delete POST https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.delete api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password&email=emailToDelete@domain.com %}
  {% response json %}
{
  "message": "success"
}
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<result>
   success
   <result> </result>
</result>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}

Commit message:

Invalid email explanation summary
Added summary of what an invalid email is and link to glossary.

source/API_Reference/Web_API/invalid_emails.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Invalid Emails
navigation:
  show: true
---

An [invalid email]({{root_url}}/docs/glossary/invalid-email/) event occurs when an address is formatted in a manner that does not meet internet email format standards, such as a misspelled domain or missing @ symbol. This is determined by SendGrid systems prior to attempting to send to a designated invalid address and therefore any further requests will result in a Dropped event. 

{% anchor h2 %}
get 
{% endanchor %}

Retrieve a list of invalid emails with addresses and response codes, optionally with dates.

{% parameters get %} 
  
  {% parameter date No 'Must be set to 1' 'Retrieve the timestamp of the invalid email records. It will return a date in a MySQL timestamp format - YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' %}  
  {% parameter days No 'If specified, must be an integer greater than 0' 'Number of days in the past for which to retrieve invalid emails (includes today)' %}  
  {% parameter start_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be earlier than the end_date parameter.' 'The start of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter end_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be later than the start_date parameter.' 'The end of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter limit No 'Some integer' 'Optional field to limit the number of results returned.' %}  
  {% parameter offset No 'Some integer' 'Optional beginning point in the list to retrieve from.' %}  
  {% parameter email No 'Email address eg testing@example.com' 'Optional email addresses to search for.' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample get GET https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.get api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password&date=1 %}
  {% response json %}
[
  {
    "reason": "Known bad domain",
    "created": "2011-06-06 16:11:57",
    "email": "test@example.com"
  },
  {
    "reason": "Invalid address",
    "created": "2012-08-17 11:04:38",
    "email": "brandon"
  }
]
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<invalidemails>
   <invalidemail>
      <reason>Known bad domain</reason>
      <created>2011-06-06 16:11:57</created>
      <email>test@example.com</email>
   </invalidemail>
   <invalidemail>
      <reason>Invalid address</reason>
      <created>2012-08-17 11:04:38</created>
      <email>brandon</email>
   </invalidemail>
</invalidemails>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}

* * * * *

{% anchor h2 %}
count 
{% endanchor %}

Retrieve the count of invalid emails.

{% parameters count %} 
  
  {% parameter start_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be earlier than the end_date parameter.' 'The start of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}  
  {% parameter end_date No 'Date must be in YYYY-MM-DD format and be later than the start_date parameter.' 'The end of the date range for which to retrieve invalid emails.' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample count GET https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.count api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password %}
  {% response json %}
{
  "count": 2
}
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<result>
   <count>2</count>
   <result> </result>
</result>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}

* * * * *

{% anchor h2 %}
delete 
{% endanchor %}

Delete an address from the Invalid Email list.

{% parameters delete %} 
  
  {% parameter email Yes 'Must be a valid user account email' 'Email Invalid Email address to remove' %}
{% endparameters %}

{% apiexample delete POST https://api.sendgrid.com/api/invalidemails.delete api_user=your_sendgrid_username&api_key=your_sendgrid_password&email=emailToDelete@domain.com %}
  {% response json %}
{
  "message": "success"
}
  {% endresponse %}
  {% response xml %}
<result>
   success
   <result> </result>
</result>

  {% endresponse %}
{% endapiexample %}
