source/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/templates.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 85
title: Marketing Templates
navigation:
  show: true
seo:
  title: Marketing Templates
  override: true
  description:
---

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/120738522" width="700" height="400" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

Marketing Campaigns templates determine how the content of your campaign will be built and displayed to your recipients. Templates also serve as a quick starting point for future campaigns by saving you time from having to rebuild your campaign's layout. Consequently, templates allow you to reuse content and maintain brand consistency across all of your campaign efforts.

We provide a collection of pre-built, responsive templates that you may begin using and customizing immediately, or you can create your own template from scratch.

{% anchor h3 %}
Creating a New Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To create a new template:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Campaigns**, and then select **Templates**.  
2. Click **Create New Template**.  
3. Select the editor you want to use, and then click **Continue**. 

{% info %}
Developers can use the [POST /campaigns API](https://sendgrid.api-docs.io/v3.0/campaigns-api/create-a-campaign) to programmatically upload a template that you can then go in and edit using the Marketing Campaigns application.
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h3 %}
Editing an Existing Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

You can only edit custom templates (templates that you have created yourself or duplicated from a SendGrid pre-built template).

*To edit a template:*
 
1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**, and then click **Templates**. 
 
   If you wish to create a custom template using either drag and drop or entering your HTML, select **BLANK TEMPLATE**. 

1. Navigate to the template you want to edit.   
1. Click the **action menu** and select **Edit**. 

   This navigates you to the editor originally used to create the campaign. After you create a template, you cannot switch between the design and code editor.

{% anchor h3 %}
Duplicating a SendGrid Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

You can easily duplicate a pre-built template provided by SendGrid. 

*To duplicate a SendGrid template:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Campaigns**  
1. Click **Templates**.  
1. Locate the template you want to duplicate and then click the action cog. 
1. Select **Duplicate**. The duplicate opens in the design editor. 

{% anchor h3 %}
Duplicating a Custom Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To duplicate one of your custom templates:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**,  
1. Click **Templates**. 
1. Click the **action menu** and select **Duplicate**. 

{% anchor h3 %}
Creating a Template from a Campaign
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To create a new template from an existing campaign:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**, and then click **Campaigns**.
1. Find the campaign you would like to use, click the **action menu**, and then select **Create Template**.

Commit message:

Added Additional Resources links at the bottom of the pages

source/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/templates.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 85
title: Marketing Templates
navigation:
  show: true
seo:
  title: Marketing Templates
  override: true
  description:
---

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/120738522" width="700" height="400" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

Marketing Campaigns templates determine how the content of your campaign will be built and displayed to your recipients. Templates also serve as a quick starting point for future campaigns by saving you time from having to rebuild your campaign's layout. Consequently, templates allow you to reuse content and maintain brand consistency across all of your campaign efforts.

We provide a collection of pre-built, responsive templates that you may begin using and customizing immediately, or you can create your own template from scratch.

{% anchor h3 %}
Creating a New Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To create a new template:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Campaigns**, and then select **Templates**.  
2. Click **Create New Template**.  
3. Select the editor you want to use, and then click **Continue**.

{% info %}
Developers can use the [POST /campaigns API](https://sendgrid.api-docs.io/v3.0/campaigns-api/create-a-campaign) to programmatically upload a template that you can then go in and edit using the Marketing Campaigns application.
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h3 %}
Editing an Existing Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

You can only edit custom templates (templates that you have created yourself or duplicated from a SendGrid pre-built template).

*To edit a template:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**, and then click **Templates**.

   If you wish to create a custom template using either drag and drop or entering your HTML, select **BLANK TEMPLATE**.

1. Navigate to the template you want to edit.  
1. Click the **action menu** and select **Edit**.

   This navigates you to the editor originally used to create the campaign. After you create a template, you cannot switch between the design and code editor.

{% anchor h3 %}
Duplicating a SendGrid Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

You can easily duplicate a pre-built template provided by SendGrid.

*To duplicate a SendGrid template:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Campaigns**  
1. Click **Templates**.  
1. Locate the template you want to duplicate and then click the action cog.
1. Select **Duplicate**. The duplicate opens in the design editor.

{% anchor h3 %}
Duplicating a Custom Template
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To duplicate one of your custom templates:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**,  
1. Click **Templates**.
1. Click the **action menu** and select **Duplicate**.

{% anchor h3 %}
Creating a Template from a Campaign
{% endanchor h3 %}

*To create a new template from an existing campaign:*

1. From the left-hand navigation, select **Marketing Campaigns**, and then click **Campaigns**.
1. Find the campaign you would like to use, click the **action menu**, and then select **Create Template**.

{% anchor h3 %}
Additional Resources
{% endanchor h3 %}

- [Design Editor](https://sendgrid.com/docs/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/design_editor.html)
- [Code Editor](https://sendgrid.com/docs/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/code_editor.html)
