source/Integrate/libraries.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: API Libraries
seo:
  title: API Libraries & Clients - SendGrid Documentation | SendGrid
  override: true
  description: Send email and interact with SendGrid using your favorite language including Python, Go, Node.js, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#, Perl, Objective-C, and more.
navigation:
  show: true
---

These libraries allow quick integration between SendGrid and your project, and are available for a variety of languages and frameworks.

{% anchor h2 %}
Official libraries
{% endanchor %}

SendGrid maintains the following official libraries for mail sending.

-   [sendgrid-csharp](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-csharp) - Official C\# Library
-   [sendgrid-go](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-go) - Official Go library
-   [sendgrid-java](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-java) - Official Java library
-   [sendgrid-nodejs](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-nodejs) - Official NodeJS library
-   [sendgrid-php](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-php) - Official PHP library
-   [sendgrid-python](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python) - Official Python library
-   [sendgrid-ruby](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-ruby) - Official Ruby library


The following official libraries are maintained by SendGrid to create [SMTP API Headers]({{root_url}}/API_Reference/SMTP_API/index.html), they are included in the above official libraries.

-   [smtpapi-csharp](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-csharp) - Official C\# SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-go](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-go) - Official Go SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-java](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-java) - Official Java SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-nodejs](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-nodejs) - Official NodeJS SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-php](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-php) - Official PHP SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-python](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-python) - Official Python SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-ruby](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-ruby) - Official Ruby SMTP API library

The following official library is maintained by SendGrid to use the [Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/API_Reference/Webhooks/event.html):
-   [EventKit](https://github.com/sendgrid/eventkit-rails) *by SendGrid* - An app to consume and store SendGrid Events.

{% info %}
If you find a problem with any of the official libraries please submit issues on their respective GitHub projects and we'll address them ASAP
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h2 %}
Community libraries
{% endanchor %}

Open source library contributions from the awesome SendGrid community.

{% info %}
If you create a library, please let us know, by editing this page [in our github repo](https://github.com/sendgrid/docs/blob/develop/source/{{page.path}}).
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h2 %}
Web API Libraries
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 %}
.NET
{% endanchor %}

-   [StrongGrid](https://github.com/Jericho/StrongGrid) *by Jeremie Desautels* - Strongly typed library (no dynamic types!) for working with SendGrid's v3 API. Available as a [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/StrongGrid/). This library also includes a parser for Events and Inbounce Email webhooks.

{% anchor h3 %}
Universal
{% endanchor %}

-   [RapidAPI-SendGrid](https://www.rapidapi.com/package/SendGrid?utm_source=apivendor&utm_campaign=links&utm_term=sendgrid) *by Dmitry Shumytskyi)* - Test the SendGrid API in your browser and integrate into your app using autogenerated code.
-   [CloudRail-SendGrid](https://cloudrail.com/?utm_source=SendGrid&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=SendGrid%20Website) *by CloudRail* - Bundle SendGrid and other APIs into one SDK

{% anchor h3 %}
Android
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-android](https://github.com/danysantiago/sendgrid-android) - The Android library for SendGrid by [DannySantiago](https://github.com/danysantiago)

{% anchor h3 %}
ColdFusion
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid.cfc](https://github.com/mjclemente/sendgrid.cfc) - *by Matthew Clemente* - A CFML wrapper for the SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
Command Line
{% endanchor %}

-   [cmdgrid](http://github.com/martyndavies/cmdgrid) *by Martyn Davies* - CLI for working with SendGrid's Parse API
-   [sgsend](http://github.com/vvaidy/sgsend) *by Vijay Vaidyanathan* - Sending email from the shell command line (for Macs and Unix)
-   [sg](http://github.com/awwa/sg) *by Wataru Sato* - CLI for all SendGrid v3 endpoints.

{% anchor h3 %}
Elixir
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid_elixir](http://github.com/alexgaribay/sendgrid_elixir) *by Alex Garibay* - Elixir package for sending SendGrid transactional emails
-   [sendgrid_elixir](https://github.com/thoughtbot/bamboo) *by Thoughtbot* - Elixir emailing package, with SendGrid adapter

{% anchor h3 %}
Groovy
{% endanchor %}

-   [grails-sendgrid](http://github.com/aiten/grails-sendgrid) *by Antony Jones* - Grails framework plugin

{% anchor h3 %}
Java
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-google-java](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-google-java) *by SendGrid* - Java library for use with Google App Engine
-   [sendgrid4j](https://github.com/shunjikonishi/sendgrid4j) *by Shunji Konishi* - Simple SendGrid client for Java
-   [sendgrid-asm-java](https://github.com/krenfro/sendgrid-asm-java) *by Kyle Renfro* - Unsubscribe Groups Java Client

{% anchor h3 %}
JavaScript / Node.js
{% endanchor %}

-   [node-sendgrid](https://github.com/HerdHound/node-sendgrid) *by Branko Vukelick* - Generate X-SMTPAPI headers in node.js.
-   [node_subscription_widget](https://github.com/devchas/sendgrid_subscription_widget) *by Devin Chasanoff* - General purpose subscription widget created in node.js

{% anchor h3 %}
Meteor
{% endanchor %}

-   [meteor-sendgrid](https://github.com/DavidBrear/meteor-sendgrid) *by David Brear* - Meteorite package for SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
Perl
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-perl](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-perl) *by SendGrid* -  Perl library for the SendGrid API
-   [WebService--SendGrid](http://github.com/majrmovies/WebService--SendGrid) *by Jonathan Lloyd* - Perl interface for SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
PHP
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-openshift-php](https://github.com/sendgrid/openshift-sendgrid-php) *by SendGrid* - Official PHP wrapper for use with Red Hat OpenShift
-   [sendgrid-report-php](https://github.com/fcosrno/sendgrid-report-php) *by Francisco Serrano* - PHP wrapper to view and manage SendGrid reports through the SendGrid API
-   [SendGrid-PHP-Library](https://github.com/alonbendavid/SendGrid-PHP-Library) *by Alon Ben David* - PHP wrapper for the SendGrid API including Marketing Email API
-   [messaging_sendgrid](http://github.com/josereyero/messaging_sendgrid) *by Jose Reyero* - Drupal 7 plugin that adds bulk messaging capabilities via SendGrid
-   [codeigniter-sendgrid-newsletter](http://github.com/bold/codeigniter-sendgrid-newsletter) *by Garrett St John* - CodeIgniter wrapper for the SendGrid Marketing Email API
-   [codeigniter-sendgrid-mail](http://github.com/bold/codeigniter-sendgrid-mail) *by Garrett St John* - CodeIgniter wrapper for the SendGrid Mail API
-   [sendgrid-component](http://github.com/damusnet/sendgrid-component) *by Damien Varron* - CakePHP component that extends the base email component with SendGrid functionality
-   [sendgrid-subuser-api](https://github.com/eliksir/sendgrid-subuser-api) *by Eliksir* - Library that makes it easy to work with the SendGrid Subuser API
-   [sendgrid-webapi-v3-php](https://github.com/idimensionz/sendgrid-webapi-v3-php) *by iDimensionz* - A complete implementation of the V3 WebAPI in PHP. Very structured, OO implementation with excellent test coverage. A repo containing examples showing how simple it is to utilize our implementation is available at [example](https://github.com/idimensionz/sendgrid-webapi-v3-examples).
-   [laravel-sendgrid-driver](https://github.com/s-ichikawa/laravel-sendgrid-driver) *by Shingo Ichikawa* - This liblary can add sendgrid driver into the laravel's mail configure.

{% anchor h3 %}
Python
{% endanchor %}

-   [greplin-tornado-sendgrid](https://github.com/Cue/greplin-tornado-sendgrid) *by Daniel Gross* - SendGrid client for Tornado Web Server
-   [django-sendgrid](https://github.com/RyanBalfanz/django-sendgrid) *by Ryan Balfanz* - SendGrid SMTP API interface for Django
-   [sendgrid-django](https://github.com/elbuo8/sendgrid-django) *by Yamil Asusta* - SendGrid Web API interface for Django

{% anchor h3 %}
Ruby
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid](http://github.com/stephenb/sendgrid) *by Stephen Blankenship* - SendGrid rubygem (ActionMailer)
-   [sendgrid_toolkit](http://github.com/freerobby/sendgrid_toolkit) *by Robby Grossman* - Ruby wrapper for the SendGrid Web API
-   [sendgrid-rails](http://github.com/PavelTyk/sendgrid-rails) *by Pavel Tsiukhtsiayeu* - Extends ActionMailer with SendGrid methods
-   [gatling_gun](http://github.com/okrb/gatling_gun) *by James Edward Gray II* - Simple wrapper over SendGrid's Marketing Email API.
-   [sendgrid_api](http://github.com/markedmondson/sendgrid_api) *by Mark Edmondson* - Implements an ActionMailer that delivers through the SendGrid Web API.
-   [sendgrid4r](https://github.com/awwa/sendgrid4r) *by Wataru Sato* - Ruby wrapper for the SendGrid Web API v3.

{% anchor h3 %}
Rust
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-rs](https://github.com/gsquire/sendgrid-rs) by [gsquire](https://github.com/gsquire)


{% anchor h3 %}
Titanium
{% endanchor %}

-   [ti.sendgrid](http://github.com/sendgrid/ti.sendgrid) - SendGrid Titanium wrapper

{% anchor h2 %}
Webhook Libraries
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 -C-sharp-webhooks %}
C#
{% endanchor %}

-   [StrongGrid](https://github.com/Jericho/StrongGrid) *by Jeremie Desautels* - Strongly typed library (no dynamic types!) for working with SendGrid's v3 API. Available as a [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/StrongGrid/). This library also includes a parser for Events and Inbounce Email webhooks.
-   [C# Webhooks](https://github.com/mirajavora/sendgrid-webhooks) - *Community contributed library*

{% anchor h3 -Python-Webhooks %}
Python
{% endanchor %}

-   [Django eventhooks](https://github.com/agiliq/sendgrid-eventhooks) *by agiliq* - An app to consume and store SendGrid Events with Django
-   [Pyramid Webhooks](https://github.com/GoodRx/pyramid-sendgrid-webhooks) *by GoodRx* - Parses incoming SendGrid Webhook events in Pyramid apps

{% anchor h3 -Ruby-Webhooks %}
Ruby
{% endanchor %}
-   [gridhook](https://github.com/injekt/gridhook) *by Lee Jarvis* - Ruby Gem for handling inbound batches from our Event API
-   [griddler](https://github.com/thoughtbot/griddler-sendgrid) *by Thoughtbot* - Rails engine that provides an endpoint for SendGrid's Parse API
-   [Pokey](https://github.com/ccallebs/pokey-sendgrid) *by Chuck Callebs* - Ruby Gem for simulating events to your code for QA or development environments

{% anchor h2 %}
Standard Drivers
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 -ado-net %}
ADO.NET Providers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData ADO.NET Provider for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/ado) *by CData Software* - Fully-managed ADO.NET Provider with support for Entity Framework, ADO.NET 2.0, LINQ, and more. Use SendGrid Data Provider objects to connect and access data just as you would access any traditional database.

{% anchor h3 -jdbc %}
JDBC Drivers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData JDBC Driver for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/jdbc) *by CData Software* - Pure Java Type 4/5 JDBC Driver with bi-directional access from Java/J2EE applications. Easily connect to live SendGrid data through any JDBC capable application or tool!

{% anchor h3 -odbc %}
ODBC Drivers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData ODBC Driver for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/odbc) *by CData Software* - Unicode-enabled 32/64-bit ODBC 3.8 compliant Driver for Windows, Mac, & Linux. Access SendGrid the same way that you would connect to any other ODBC data source!

Commit message:

Add library to supported libraries list #3121

source/Integrate/libraries.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: API Libraries
seo:
  title: API Libraries & Clients - SendGrid Documentation | SendGrid
  override: true
  description: Send email and interact with SendGrid using your favorite language including Python, Go, Node.js, Ruby, PHP, Java, C#, Perl, Objective-C, and more.
navigation:
  show: true
---

These libraries allow quick integration between SendGrid and your project, and are available for a variety of languages and frameworks.

{% anchor h2 %}
Official libraries
{% endanchor %}

SendGrid maintains the following official libraries for mail sending.

-   [sendgrid-csharp](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-csharp) - Official C\# Library
-   [sendgrid-go](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-go) - Official Go library
-   [sendgrid-java](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-java) - Official Java library
-   [sendgrid-nodejs](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-nodejs) - Official NodeJS library
-   [sendgrid-php](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-php) - Official PHP library
-   [sendgrid-python](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python) - Official Python library
-   [sendgrid-ruby](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-ruby) - Official Ruby library


The following official libraries are maintained by SendGrid to create [SMTP API Headers]({{root_url}}/API_Reference/SMTP_API/index.html), they are included in the above official libraries.

-   [smtpapi-csharp](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-csharp) - Official C\# SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-go](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-go) - Official Go SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-java](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-java) - Official Java SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-nodejs](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-nodejs) - Official NodeJS SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-php](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-php) - Official PHP SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-python](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-python) - Official Python SMTP API library
-   [smtpapi-ruby](http://github.com/sendgrid/smtpapi-ruby) - Official Ruby SMTP API library

The following official library is maintained by SendGrid to use the [Event Webhook]({{root_url}}/API_Reference/Webhooks/event.html):
-   [EventKit](https://github.com/sendgrid/eventkit-rails) *by SendGrid* - An app to consume and store SendGrid Events.

{% info %}
If you find a problem with any of the official libraries please submit issues on their respective GitHub projects and we'll address them ASAP
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h2 %}
Community libraries
{% endanchor %}

Open source library contributions from the awesome SendGrid community.

{% info %}
If you create a library, please let us know, by editing this page [in our github repo](https://github.com/sendgrid/docs/blob/develop/source/{{page.path}}).
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h2 %}
Web API Libraries
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 %}
.NET
{% endanchor %}

-   [StrongGrid](https://github.com/Jericho/StrongGrid) *by Jeremie Desautels* - Strongly typed library (no dynamic types!) for working with SendGrid's v3 API. Available as a [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/StrongGrid/). This library also includes a parser for Events and Inbounce Email webhooks.

{% anchor h3 %}
Universal
{% endanchor %}

-   [RapidAPI-SendGrid](https://www.rapidapi.com/package/SendGrid?utm_source=apivendor&utm_campaign=links&utm_term=sendgrid) *by Dmitry Shumytskyi)* - Test the SendGrid API in your browser and integrate into your app using autogenerated code.
-   [CloudRail-SendGrid](https://cloudrail.com/?utm_source=SendGrid&utm_medium=Website&utm_campaign=SendGrid%20Website) *by CloudRail* - Bundle SendGrid and other APIs into one SDK

{% anchor h3 %}
Android
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-android](https://github.com/danysantiago/sendgrid-android) - The Android library for SendGrid by [DannySantiago](https://github.com/danysantiago)

{% anchor h3 %}
ColdFusion
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid.cfc](https://github.com/mjclemente/sendgrid.cfc) - *by Matthew Clemente* - A CFML wrapper for the SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
Command Line
{% endanchor %}

-   [cmdgrid](http://github.com/martyndavies/cmdgrid) *by Martyn Davies* - CLI for working with SendGrid's Parse API
-   [sgsend](http://github.com/vvaidy/sgsend) *by Vijay Vaidyanathan* - Sending email from the shell command line (for Macs and Unix)
-   [sg](http://github.com/awwa/sg) *by Wataru Sato* - CLI for all SendGrid v3 endpoints.

{% anchor h3 %}
Elixir
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid_elixir](http://github.com/alexgaribay/sendgrid_elixir) *by Alex Garibay* - Elixir package for sending SendGrid transactional emails
-   [sendgrid_elixir](https://github.com/thoughtbot/bamboo) *by Thoughtbot* - Elixir emailing package, with SendGrid adapter

{% anchor h3 %}
Groovy
{% endanchor %}

-   [grails-sendgrid](http://github.com/aiten/grails-sendgrid) *by Antony Jones* - Grails framework plugin

{% anchor h3 %}
Java
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-google-java](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-google-java) *by SendGrid* - Java library for use with Google App Engine
-   [sendgrid4j](https://github.com/shunjikonishi/sendgrid4j) *by Shunji Konishi* - Simple SendGrid client for Java
-   [sendgrid-asm-java](https://github.com/krenfro/sendgrid-asm-java) *by Kyle Renfro* - Unsubscribe Groups Java Client

{% anchor h3 %}
JavaScript / Node.js
{% endanchor %}

-   [node-sendgrid](https://github.com/HerdHound/node-sendgrid) *by Branko Vukelick* - Generate X-SMTPAPI headers in node.js.
-   [node_subscription_widget](https://github.com/devchas/sendgrid_subscription_widget) *by Devin Chasanoff* - General purpose subscription widget created in node.js

{% anchor h3 %}
Meteor
{% endanchor %}

-   [meteor-sendgrid](https://github.com/DavidBrear/meteor-sendgrid) *by David Brear* - Meteorite package for SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
Perl
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-perl](http://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-perl) *by SendGrid* -  Perl library for the SendGrid API
-   [WebService--SendGrid](http://github.com/majrmovies/WebService--SendGrid) *by Jonathan Lloyd* - Perl interface for SendGrid API

{% anchor h3 %}
PHP
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-openshift-php](https://github.com/sendgrid/openshift-sendgrid-php) *by SendGrid* - Official PHP wrapper for use with Red Hat OpenShift
-   [sendgrid-report-php](https://github.com/fcosrno/sendgrid-report-php) *by Francisco Serrano* - PHP wrapper to view and manage SendGrid reports through the SendGrid API
-   [SendGrid-PHP-Library](https://github.com/alonbendavid/SendGrid-PHP-Library) *by Alon Ben David* - PHP wrapper for the SendGrid API including Marketing Email API
-   [messaging_sendgrid](http://github.com/josereyero/messaging_sendgrid) *by Jose Reyero* - Drupal 7 plugin that adds bulk messaging capabilities via SendGrid
-   [codeigniter-sendgrid-newsletter](http://github.com/bold/codeigniter-sendgrid-newsletter) *by Garrett St John* - CodeIgniter wrapper for the SendGrid Marketing Email API
-   [codeigniter-sendgrid-mail](http://github.com/bold/codeigniter-sendgrid-mail) *by Garrett St John* - CodeIgniter wrapper for the SendGrid Mail API
-   [sendgrid-component](http://github.com/damusnet/sendgrid-component) *by Damien Varron* - CakePHP component that extends the base email component with SendGrid functionality
-   [sendgrid-subuser-api](https://github.com/eliksir/sendgrid-subuser-api) *by Eliksir* - Library that makes it easy to work with the SendGrid Subuser API
-   [sendgrid-webapi-v3-php](https://github.com/idimensionz/sendgrid-webapi-v3-php) *by iDimensionz* - A complete implementation of the V3 WebAPI in PHP. Very structured, OO implementation with excellent test coverage. A repo containing examples showing how simple it is to utilize our implementation is available at [example](https://github.com/idimensionz/sendgrid-webapi-v3-examples).
-   [laravel-sendgrid-driver](https://github.com/s-ichikawa/laravel-sendgrid-driver) *by Shingo Ichikawa* - This liblary can add sendgrid driver into the laravel's mail configure.
-   [sendgrid](https://packagist.org/packages/godpod/sendgrid) *by Ravi Rajendra* - This library allows you to quickly and easily send emails or make api calls through SendGrid using PHP.

{% anchor h3 %}
Python
{% endanchor %}

-   [greplin-tornado-sendgrid](https://github.com/Cue/greplin-tornado-sendgrid) *by Daniel Gross* - SendGrid client for Tornado Web Server
-   [django-sendgrid](https://github.com/RyanBalfanz/django-sendgrid) *by Ryan Balfanz* - SendGrid SMTP API interface for Django
-   [sendgrid-django](https://github.com/elbuo8/sendgrid-django) *by Yamil Asusta* - SendGrid Web API interface for Django

{% anchor h3 %}
Ruby
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid](http://github.com/stephenb/sendgrid) *by Stephen Blankenship* - SendGrid rubygem (ActionMailer)
-   [sendgrid_toolkit](http://github.com/freerobby/sendgrid_toolkit) *by Robby Grossman* - Ruby wrapper for the SendGrid Web API
-   [sendgrid-rails](http://github.com/PavelTyk/sendgrid-rails) *by Pavel Tsiukhtsiayeu* - Extends ActionMailer with SendGrid methods
-   [gatling_gun](http://github.com/okrb/gatling_gun) *by James Edward Gray II* - Simple wrapper over SendGrid's Marketing Email API.
-   [sendgrid_api](http://github.com/markedmondson/sendgrid_api) *by Mark Edmondson* - Implements an ActionMailer that delivers through the SendGrid Web API.
-   [sendgrid4r](https://github.com/awwa/sendgrid4r) *by Wataru Sato* - Ruby wrapper for the SendGrid Web API v3.

{% anchor h3 %}
Rust
{% endanchor %}

-   [sendgrid-rs](https://github.com/gsquire/sendgrid-rs) by [gsquire](https://github.com/gsquire)


{% anchor h3 %}
Titanium
{% endanchor %}

-   [ti.sendgrid](http://github.com/sendgrid/ti.sendgrid) - SendGrid Titanium wrapper

{% anchor h2 %}
Webhook Libraries
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 -C-sharp-webhooks %}
C#
{% endanchor %}

-   [StrongGrid](https://github.com/Jericho/StrongGrid) *by Jeremie Desautels* - Strongly typed library (no dynamic types!) for working with SendGrid's v3 API. Available as a [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/StrongGrid/). This library also includes a parser for Events and Inbounce Email webhooks.
-   [C# Webhooks](https://github.com/mirajavora/sendgrid-webhooks) - *Community contributed library*

{% anchor h3 -Python-Webhooks %}
Python
{% endanchor %}

-   [Django eventhooks](https://github.com/agiliq/sendgrid-eventhooks) *by agiliq* - An app to consume and store SendGrid Events with Django
-   [Pyramid Webhooks](https://github.com/GoodRx/pyramid-sendgrid-webhooks) *by GoodRx* - Parses incoming SendGrid Webhook events in Pyramid apps

{% anchor h3 -Ruby-Webhooks %}
Ruby
{% endanchor %}
-   [gridhook](https://github.com/injekt/gridhook) *by Lee Jarvis* - Ruby Gem for handling inbound batches from our Event API
-   [griddler](https://github.com/thoughtbot/griddler-sendgrid) *by Thoughtbot* - Rails engine that provides an endpoint for SendGrid's Parse API
-   [Pokey](https://github.com/ccallebs/pokey-sendgrid) *by Chuck Callebs* - Ruby Gem for simulating events to your code for QA or development environments

{% anchor h2 %}
Standard Drivers
{% endanchor %}

{% anchor h3 -ado-net %}
ADO.NET Providers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData ADO.NET Provider for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/ado) *by CData Software* - Fully-managed ADO.NET Provider with support for Entity Framework, ADO.NET 2.0, LINQ, and more. Use SendGrid Data Provider objects to connect and access data just as you would access any traditional database.

{% anchor h3 -jdbc %}
JDBC Drivers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData JDBC Driver for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/jdbc) *by CData Software* - Pure Java Type 4/5 JDBC Driver with bi-directional access from Java/J2EE applications. Easily connect to live SendGrid data through any JDBC capable application or tool!

{% anchor h3 -odbc %}
ODBC Drivers
{% endanchor %}
-    [CData ODBC Driver for SendGrid](http://www.cdata.com/drivers/sendgrid/odbc) *by CData Software* - Unicode-enabled 32/64-bit ODBC 3.8 compliant Driver for Windows, Mac, & Linux. Access SendGrid the same way that you would connect to any other ODBC data source!
