source/User_Guide/Settings/billing.md, before:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Billing Settings
seo:
  title: Billing Settings
  description: Manage your SendGrid billing settings
  keywords: billing settings
navigation:
  show: true
---

When you create or upgrade to a paid account, you will put a credit card in for automatic payments. This will allow SendGrid to make the recurring package charges for your account without having to notify you each month of the bill. SendGrid relies on a PCI-DSS compliant 3rd party billing provider to store, process, and manage payment card processing.

{% anchor h2 %}
Billing Details
{% endanchor %}

Your billing details show you what plan you have and how you will be billed by SendGrid.

**Plan** - The plan you are currently using with SendGrid.

**Price** - The price per month that you pay to use SendGrid.

**Overage Price** - The price you pay per email when you send more emails than are available on your package.

**Marketing** - The cost per marketing email when using [Marketing Campaigns]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/index.html).

{% anchor h2 %}
Invoices
{% endanchor %}

Your recent invoices are shown in this section in a list ordered by date. You are shown the date you were billed, how much you were billed, and the status of that invoice.

{% anchor h2 %}
Changing Your Plan
{% endanchor %}

To change your plan, click the “Change Plan” button next to your billing details. You will be shown the plan options that are available to you, whether you are upgrading or downgrading your SendGrid service. Simply click the plan you would like and follow the prompts.

{% anchor h2 %}
Cancel Account
{% endanchor %}

{% info %}
Canceled accounts are not deleted. Accounts are changed to our [free]({{site.site_url}}/free?mc=SendGrid%20Documentation) plan.
{% endinfo %}

We are truly sorry to see you go. Please don’t forget that we have 24/7 support and would love the opportunity to help and chat about why you’re leaving if we can.

To cancel, got the bottom of your billing details page, click the Cancel button, and follow the prompts. This process will close out your account.

Commit message:

Issue 3089
User Guide > Settings > Billing
User Guide > Settings > Subusers > Subusers Overview
User Guide > Settings > Subusers > Impersonation
User Guide > Settings > Subusers > Profile
User Guide > Settings > Subusers > Settings

On the above pages, the Additional Resources content has been added, but I've also fixed some formatting and content issues.  I also converted index.html to index.md (still renders as index.html) and converted native html to markdown.

source/User_Guide/Settings/billing.md, after:

---
layout: page
weight: 0
title: Billing Settings
seo:
  title: Billing Settings
  description: Manage your SendGrid billing settings
  keywords: billing settings
navigation:
  show: true
---

When you create or upgrade to a paid account, you will put a credit card in for automatic payments. This will allow SendGrid to make the recurring package charges for your account without having to notify you each month of the bill. SendGrid relies on a PCI-DSS compliant 3rd party billing provider to store, process, and manage payment card processing.

{% anchor h2 %}
Billing Details
{% endanchor %}

Your billing details show you what plan you have and how you will be billed by SendGrid.

**Plan** - The plan you are currently using with SendGrid.

**Price** - The price per month that you pay to use SendGrid.

**Overage Price** - The price you pay per email when you send more emails than are available on your package.

**Marketing** - The cost per marketing email when using [Marketing Campaigns]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/index.html).

{% anchor h2 %}
Invoices
{% endanchor %}

Your recent invoices are shown in this section in a list ordered by date. You are shown the date you were billed, how much you were billed, and the status of that invoice.

{% anchor h2 %}
Changing Your Plan
{% endanchor %}

To change your plan, click the “Change Plan” button next to your billing details. You will be shown the plan options that are available to you, whether you are upgrading or downgrading your SendGrid service. Simply click the plan you would like and follow the prompts.

{% anchor h2 %}
Cancel Account
{% endanchor %}

{% info %}
Canceled accounts are not deleted. Accounts are changed to our [free]({{site.site_url}}/free?mc=SendGrid%20Documentation) plan.
{% endinfo %}

We are truly sorry to see you go. Please don’t forget that [we have 24/7 support]({{site.support_url}}) and would love the opportunity to help and chat about why you’re leaving if we can.

To cancel, go the bottom of your billing details page, click the Cancel button, and follow the prompts. This process will close out your account.

{% anchor h2 %}
Additional Resources
{% endanchor h2 %}

- [SendGrid Pricing]({{site.site_url}}/pricing/)
- [Subuser Impersonation]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Subusers/impersonation.html)
- [Email Activity]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/email_activity.html)
- [SendGrid Support]({{site.support_url}})
