---
st:
 published_at: 2016-06-16
 type: "User_Guide"
seo:
 title: Two-Factor Authentication
 description: Two-Factor Authentication gives you an extra layer of security to protect your SendGrid account.
 keywords: 2FA, two-factor authentication, authentication, security, authy
title: Two-Factor Authentication
weight: 90
layout: page
navigation:
 show: true
---

Two-factor authentication, commonly referred to as multi-factor authentication, allows you to make your SendGrid account more secure by requiring authentication beyond a simple username and password when logging in.

SendGrid’s Two-Factor Authentication can be configured to accept a code sent to your mobile phone either via the the [Authy App](https://www.authy.com/app/mobile/), or an SMS message.

* [Setting Up Two-Factor Authentication](#-Setting-Up-Two-Factor-Authentication)
* [Using Two-Factor Authentication](#-Using-Two-Factor-Authentication)
* [Disabling Two-Factor Authentication](#-Disabling-Two-Factor-Authentication)
* [Regaining access to my account when I've been locked out by Two-Factor Authentication](#-Regaining-access-to-my-account-when-I--ve-been-locked-out-by-Two-Factor-Authentication)

{% anchor h2 %}
Setting Up Two-Factor Authentication
{% endanchor h2 %}

You may choose from two different verification methods when using two-factor authentication:

1. Generating a verification code in the [Authy App](https://www.authy.com/app/mobile/).
   The Authy App allows you to authenticate over WiFi if you do not have cellular service. However, you may still resort to an SMS message as a       backup if you decide to use Authy.
1. Entering a code sent to your mobile phone that is generated by SendGrid.

{% warning %}
When authenticating via SMS message, you must have cellular service or you will not be able to log into your account.
{% endwarning %}

*To set up Two-Factor Authentication:*

1. Navigate to **Settings**, and click **Two-Factor Authentication**. 
 <br>From this page, you will be able to see an overview of your Two-Factor Authentication settings, along with any settings that you have created for Credentialed Users.
1. Click **Add Two-Factor Authentication**.
1. Select either the Authy App or text messages (SMS) as your means of authentication.
1. Enter your **country code** and **phone number**.

{% info %}
You can create multiple configurations of Two-Factor Authentication, allowing you to use more than one mobile device to authenticate when logging into your account
{% endinfo %}

{% anchor h2 %}
Using Two-Factor Authentication
{% endanchor h2 %}

After you have created a setting for Two-Factor Authentication, log in as you normally would. If you have selected to receive a text message with your authentication token, look for the text message and enter the code that you receive. If you have selected the Authy App, go to your app, and enter the generated code.

Once set up, you will always be required to use Two-Factor Authentication to perform security-restricted actions in your SendGrid account, such as logging in or changing your Two-Factor Authentication settings. When prompted, simply enter the 7-digit token sent to your device, or generated by the Authy App.

{% anchor h2 %}
Disabling Two-Factor Authentication
{% endanchor h2 %}

*To disable or delete a Two-Factor Authentication setting:*

1. Navigate to **Settings**, and click **Two-Factor Authentication**.
1. Find the setting you would like to delete. 
1. Click the **action menu**, and then select **Delete**.
1. Enter the 7 digit code you receive via text or Authy app into the field and then click **Delete**. 

{% anchor h2 %}
Regaining access to my account after being locked out by Two-Factor Authentication
{% endanchor h2 %}

If you find that you’ve lost access to your account as a result of Two-Factor Authentication, please reach out to the [Authy Support Team](https://support.authy.com/hc/en-us).

{% anchor h2 %}
Additional Resources
{% endanchor h2 %}

* [Restoring Authy access on lost or inaccessible phones](https://support.authy.com/hc/en-us/articles/115012672088-Restoring-Authy-access-on-lost-or-inaccessible-phones)
