source/Integrate/Partners/account-migration.md, before:

---
seo:
  title: SendGrid account migration
  description: Sometimes if a SendGrid partner no longer supports SendGrid core functionality, you may want to migrate your account to a regular SendGrid account.
  keywords: migrate, partner sunset
title: SendGrid account migration
weight: 0
layout: page
navigation:
  show: true
---

If you are migrating from one SendGrid account to another, there are several things to keep in mind - make sure to stop sending mail until you migrate to a new, warmed up account, and make sure export data from your old account, and clean up the data described here so that you can import it into your new account.

{% anchor h2 %}
Before you begin
{% endanchor %}

- Pause sending email on your old account.
- Login to app.sendgrid.com with your current SendGrid username and password.

{% anchor h2 %}
Update sender authentication
{% endanchor %}

You cannot export and import sender authentication data - you need to set this up manually in your new account after you delete the current authentication records from your [DNS]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_domain_authentication.html#-DNS) provider.

If you have domain, link, and IP authentication set up, remove 5 CNAME or MX/TXT records and 1 A record from your domain’s DNS. To verify the records delete from your DNS, go to the [Sender Authentication page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/sender_auth) in the UI and check the DNS column:

![]({{root_url}}/img/dns-records.jpg "Where to find your existing DNS records")

To set up sender authentication in your new account, check out [Setting up domain authentication]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_domain_authentication.html), [Setting up reverse DNS]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_link_branding.html), and [Setting up link branding]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_link_branding.html).

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate unsubscribes
{% endanchor %}

To download your unsubscribes, on the [Global unsubscribes page](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/global_unsubscribes), select the action menu, and then click **Download a CSV**.

To set up your unsubscribes in your new account, copy them into the UI by going to [Global](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/global_unsubscribes) or [Group](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/group_unsubscribes) Unsubscribes page, selecting the action menu and then adding them to the list. You can add them with the API by using the [Suppressions methods](https://sendgrid.api-docs.io/v3.0/suppressions-global-suppressions/add-recipient-addresses-to-the-global-suppression-group)

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate templates
{% endanchor %}

From the [Marketing Campaigns templates](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/marketing_templates) and the [Transactional templates](https://sendgrid.com/dynamic_templates) pages in the UI, export the HTML of any templates you want to migrate.

To add your templates in the new account, navigate to either the [Marketing Campaigns templates](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/marketing_templates) or the [Transactional templates](https://sendgrid.com/dynamic_templates) page in the UI, create a new template, select to [use the code editor]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/editor.html), and paste the HTML of the exported template into the editor.

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate Marketing Campaigns Contacts
{% endanchor %}

From the [Marketing Campaigns contacts](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/contacts) page, click into your [Global All Contacts](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/all_contacts) list. Then export a CSV of your contacts.

To upload your contacts into your new account, from the [Contacts page](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/contacts), click **Add contacts** and then *Upload CSV*.

{% anchor h2 %}
Review existing API keys
{% endanchor %}

If you are using the SendGrid API, double check your accounts [list of API keys](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys). API keys are not exportable, but it's good to make sure that you're aware of all of the existing API keys in your account so that you can create new ones to match in your new account and update your integrations with the new API keys.

{% anchor h2 %}
Delete teammates
{% endanchor %}

Teammate names have to be unique across SendGrid, so if you want to continue to use your teammate name, delete it from your original account to add it to your new account.

{% anchor h2 %}
Create new subusers
{% endanchor %}

If you are using subusers, navigate to the [subusers page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/subusers) in the UI and click **Export data** to download all of the information on your current subsuers.

To add subusers to your new account, go to the [subusers page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/subusers) in the UI, and click **Create a new subuser**. Use the data from the exported CSV to create a new subuser.

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate dedicated IPs
{% endanchor %}

If you are using a dedicated IP, our support team can migrate your dedicated IP for you. Access support contact options by logging into https://support.sendgrid.com. Provide us with: your current and new usernames, the IP addresses, and your preferred time for the IP transfer - we can migrate IPs between 7 am and 5 pm MST on Monday through Friday.

Be sure to set up reverse DNS and rewarm up your transferred IP before you start sending on it in your new account. You also need to reassign it to subusers if needed.

{% anchor h2 %}
Download stats and email activity
{% endanchor %}

On all of the stats pages and on the email activity page, click **Export CSV** to download your stats for your records. Your new account cannot import this data.

Commit message:

tweaking phrasing to make it more clear this is from partners to sendgrid migration

source/Integrate/Partners/account-migration.md, after:

---
seo:
  title: Migrating from a partner account
  description: Sometimes if a SendGrid partner no longer supports SendGrid core functionality, you may want to migrate your account to a regular SendGrid account.
  keywords: migrate, partner sunset
title: Migrating from a partner account
weight: 0
layout: page
navigation:
  show: true
---

If you are setting up a new account directly with SendGrid but have previously had an account through one of our partners, there are several things to keep in mind - make sure to stop sending mail until you migrate to a new, warmed up account, and make sure export data from your old account, and clean up the data described here so that you can import it into your new account.

{% anchor h2 %}
Before you begin
{% endanchor %}

- Pause sending email on your old account.
- Login to app.sendgrid.com with your current SendGrid username and password.

{% anchor h2 %}
Update sender authentication
{% endanchor %}

You cannot export and import sender authentication data - you need to set this up manually in your new account after you delete the current authentication records from your [DNS]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_domain_authentication.html#-DNS) provider.

If you have domain, link, and IP authentication set up, remove 5 CNAME or MX/TXT records and 1 A record from your domain’s DNS. To verify the records delete from your DNS, go to the [Sender Authentication page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/sender_auth) in the UI and check the DNS column:

![]({{root_url}}/img/dns-records.jpg "Where to find your existing DNS records")

To set up sender authentication in your new account, check out [Setting up domain authentication]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_domain_authentication.html), [Setting up reverse DNS]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_link_branding.html), and [Setting up link branding]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Settings/Sender_authentication/How_to_set_up_link_branding.html).

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate unsubscribes
{% endanchor %}

To download your unsubscribes, on the [Global unsubscribes page](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/global_unsubscribes), select the action menu, and then click **Download a CSV**.

To set up your unsubscribes in your new account, copy them into the UI by going to [Global](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/global_unsubscribes) or [Group](https://app.sendgrid.com/suppressions/group_unsubscribes) Unsubscribes page, selecting the action menu and then adding them to the list. You can add them with the API by using the [Suppressions methods](https://sendgrid.api-docs.io/v3.0/suppressions-global-suppressions/add-recipient-addresses-to-the-global-suppression-group)

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate templates
{% endanchor %}

From the [Marketing Campaigns templates](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/marketing_templates) and the [Transactional templates](https://sendgrid.com/dynamic_templates) pages in the UI, export the HTML of any templates you want to migrate.

To add your templates in the new account, navigate to either the [Marketing Campaigns templates](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/marketing_templates) or the [Transactional templates](https://sendgrid.com/dynamic_templates) page in the UI, create a new template, select to [use the code editor]({{root_url}}/User_Guide/Marketing_Campaigns/editor.html), and paste the HTML of the exported template into the editor.

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate Marketing Campaigns Contacts
{% endanchor %}

From the [Marketing Campaigns contacts](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/contacts) page, click into your [Global All Contacts](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/all_contacts) list. Then export a CSV of your contacts.

To upload your contacts into your new account, from the [Contacts page](https://sendgrid.com/marketing_campaigns/ui/contacts), click **Add contacts** and then *Upload CSV*.

{% anchor h2 %}
Review existing API keys
{% endanchor %}

If you are using the SendGrid API, double check your accounts [list of API keys](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys). API keys are not exportable, but it's good to make sure that you're aware of all of the existing API keys in your account so that you can create new ones to match in your new account and update your integrations with the new API keys.

{% anchor h2 %}
Delete teammates
{% endanchor %}

Teammate names have to be unique across SendGrid, so if you want to continue to use your teammate name, delete it from your original account to add it to your new account.

{% anchor h2 %}
Create new subusers
{% endanchor %}

If you are using subusers, navigate to the [subusers page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/subusers) in the UI and click **Export data** to download all of the information on your current subsuers.

To add subusers to your new account, go to the [subusers page](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/subusers) in the UI, and click **Create a new subuser**. Use the data from the exported CSV to create a new subuser.

{% anchor h2 %}
Migrate dedicated IPs
{% endanchor %}

If you are using a dedicated IP, our support team can migrate your dedicated IP for you. Access support contact options by logging into https://support.sendgrid.com. Provide us with: your current and new usernames, the IP addresses, and your preferred time for the IP transfer - we can migrate IPs between 7 am and 5 pm MST on Monday through Friday.

Be sure to set up reverse DNS and rewarm up your transferred IP before you start sending on it in your new account. You also need to reassign it to subusers if needed.

{% anchor h2 %}
Download stats and email activity
{% endanchor %}

On all of the stats pages and on the email activity page, click **Export CSV** to download your stats for your records. Your new account cannot import this data.
